
1. J Comp Neurol. 1999 May 10;407(3):333-48.

Distribution of serotonin (5HT)-immunoreactive structures in the central nervous 
system of two chondrostean species (Acipenser baeri and Huso huso).

Adrio F(1), Anadón R, Rodríguez-Moldes I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Fundamental Biology, Faculty of Biology, University of Santiago de 
Compostela, Spain.

The distribution of serotonin-immunoreactive (5HT-ir) elements was studied in the
brain and rostral spinal cord of two chondrosteans, Acipenser baeri and Huso
huso, by using an antibody against serotonin. The distribution of these elements 
was similar in both sturgeon species. In the telencephalon, 5HT-ir cells were
found in the olfactory bulb and in the medioventral wall of the telencephalic
ventricle, rostral to the anterior commissure, the latter being cerebrospinal
fluid-contacting (CSF-C) neurons. The diencephalon contained the highest number
of 5HT-ir cell bodies, most of them of CSF-C type, located in the preoptic recess
organ, paraventricular organ, posterior recess nucleus, and in the ventromedial
thalamus. 5HT-ir non-CSF-C neurons appeared in the dorsal thalamic nucleus. In
the brainstem, 5HT-ir neurons were located in four raphe nuclei (dorsal,
superior, medial and inferior raphe nuclei) and four lateral reticular nuclei.
The dorsal raphe nucleus contained 5HT-ir CSF-C cells, a type of serotoninergic
cell that has not been described before in raphe nuclei of fishes or of other
vertebrates. CSF-C and non-CSF-C 5HT-ir cells were observed in the spinal cord.
5HT-ir fibers were also widely distributed in the central nervous system of both 
sturgeon species. Comparison of these results with the distribution of
serotoninergic systems in lampreys and other vertebrates suggests that widespread
distribution of 5HT-ir cells is a feature of early vertebrate lines.

PMID: 10320215  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]

