
1. J Chem Neuroanat. 1999 Jun;16(4):245-63.

Afferents to the rostral olfactory bulb in sheep with special emphasis on the
cholinergic, noradrenergic and serotonergic connections.

LÃ©vy F(1), Meurisse M, Ferreira G, Thibault J, Tillet Y.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Comportement Animal, INRA/CNRS URA 1291, Nouzilly, France.
levy@tours.inra.fr

The olfactory bulb (OB) is involved in the processing of olfactory information
particularly through the activation of its afferents. To localize their cell
origin in sheep, a specific retrograde fluorescent tracer, Fluoro-Gold, was
injected into the olfactory bulb of seven ewes. By using immunocytochemical
techniques, retrogradely labeled neurons were colocalized with choline
acetyltransferase, tyrosine hydroxylase, dopamine-beta-hydroxylase and serotonin 
to characterize cholinergic, noradrenergic and serotonergic Fluoro-Gold-labeled
neurons. Most afferents originated from the ipsilateral side of the injection
site. The OB received major inputs from the anterior olfactory nucleus (AON), the
piriform cortex (PC), the olfactory tubercle, the diagonal band of Broca (DBB)
and the amygdala. Other retrogradely labeled neurons were observed in the taenia 
tecta, the septum, the nucleus of the lateral olfactory tract, the preoptic area,
the lateral hypothalamic area, the mediobasal hypothalamus, the lateral part of
the premammillary nucleus, the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, the
paraventricular thalamic nucleus, the central grey, the substantia nigra (SN),
the ventral tegmental area (VTA), the lateral nucleus to the interpeduncular
nucleus (IIP), the raphe and the locus coeruleus (LC). Contralateral labeling was
also found in the AON, the PC, the SN compacta, the VTA, the IIP and the LC.
Cholinergic Fluoro-Gold-labeled neurons belonged to the horizontal and vertical
branch of the DBB. Noradrenergic afferents came from the LC and serotoninergic
afferents came from the medial raphe nuclei and the 1IP. These data are discussed
in relation with olfactory learning in the context of maternal behavior in sheep.

PMID: 10450873  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]

