
1. Brain Res. 1999 Sep 4;840(1-2):56-64.

Differences in hypothalamic 2-[125I]iodomelatonin binding in photoresponsive and 
non-photoresponsive white-footed mice, Peromyscus leucopus.

Heideman PD(1), Kane SL, Goodnight AL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, The College of William and Mary, Williamsburg, VA, USA.
heideman@wm.edu

Photoperiod is an environmental cue used by many temperate-zone species to
regulate their reproductive timing. Within species, the degree of reproductive
photoresponsiveness can vary widely both among and within populations. The
neuroendocrine mechanisms causing this individual variation in
photoresponsiveness are unknown. Using selected lines from a population of
white-footed mice known to vary genetically in reproductive photoresponsiveness, 
we tested the hypothesis that variation in the number and/or location of
melatonin receptors is the basis for individual differences in reproductive
photoresponsiveness. The brains and pars tuberalis of the pituitary from sixteen 
mice, (eight mice from each of two lines selected for two generations to respond 
strongly or weakly to photoperiod), were processed for autoradiography using the 
radioligand 2-[125I]-iodomelatonin (IMEL). We found significantly higher specific
IMEL binding in the medial preoptic area and the bed nucleus of the stria
terminalis of non-responsive mice than responsive mice. There were no differences
between groups in specific IMEL binding in the suprachiasmatic and dorsomedial
nuclei of the hypothalamus, pars tuberalis, or paraventricular nucleus of the
thalamus. These results provide support for the hypothesis that individual
variation in photoresponsiveness is due in part to differences in the density or 
affinity of melatonin receptors.

PMID: 10517952  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]

